- [Voiceover] Your friends are talking about Docker.
Your colleagues are talking about Docker.
You're reading articles about Docker.
You're hearing presentations.
Youtubes.
Heck, even your neighbor is talking about Docker.
But you don't get the concept.
You want to get started with Docker,
and how does it impact your life
as an application developer.
This course is exactly meant for you.
This course will explain what is Docker,
and how do you get started with it.
Let's take a look.
Well what is Docker, first of all?
Well, Docker is an open-source project
that started about three years ago.
It used to be called Dark Cloud,
and the main idea behind that project
was really to build containers for software applications.
Over a period of time, the company Dark Cloud
was changed to the name Docker
and now is an open-source project,
and a company literally on GitHub.
So it's http://www.github.com/docker.
It's where you will find everything around the company
and the project itself.
Just look at the number of watches,
number of stars,
number of forks on the GitHub repo.
This is a recent snapshot I literally took this morning.
Look at the number of issues,
the pull requests that are pending.
Hundreds have been closed as well.
It's an extremely popular project.
What is Docker really used for though?
Well, think of it as an application deployment,
or application delivery technology.
It is used to build, deploy, and run containers
for software applications.
What are containers good for?
Well, go back to the analogy many, many years ago
when a wholesaler will produce goods
and he has to send it to the actual retailer.
Well, the wholesaler will produce goods.
He will pack it in whatever form he can.
It will go on a cart, go to the shipping container,
or go to the shipyard basically,
and from there the person
who is responsible for taking the ship
will collect hundreds of such containers
from everybody in different shapes and forms,
then he will figure out how the stacking needs to happen,
then he will go across the sea,
then he will unboard it.
And then again, it goes in different carts,
or trucks, or trains, and so on.
That's a nightmare for the shipment guy,
because he has to accommodate for different formats.
Take the same analogy for software application.
Well, before that, what they did is,
they essentially said,
"You know what? You can bring whatever goods
you want to bring to me,
but I am only going to take these goods
in a certain container format.
I'm only going to take in container boxes.
I don't care what you bring in the container,
but this is the container that I'm going to take."
That makes it a lot easier,
not just to ship the goods from the wholesaler to the ship,
shipping in the ship,
and then from the ship to the retailer.
Take that analogy for software.
Now, we want to build software, essentially.
What Docker gives you is a standard way
to package your software,
deploy the software,
and run the software.
What goes in the container,
which is called as a container,
it is completely your application developers responsibility,
but Docker just gives you that standard format
by which you can easily do this.
So, what is Docker Mission at a very high level?
Well, essentially it wants you to be able
to build, ship, and run distributed applications.
Think about this.
Now, when you are building an application
you have multiple components to the application.
You have a web server.
You have an application server.
You have a database server.
You have a caching layer.
You have a messaging server.
Multiple components.
And, typically, you want to run these applications
in a distributed way.
Why would you run in a distributed?
Because you want to avoid a single point of failure.
And for a web server,
or a database server,
or an application server,
you will run multiple instances of those.
And you want to run multiple instances again,
to avoid a single point of failure.
Also, to be able to meet the scalability needs
of your application.
So that in case more
database concurrent accesses are required
you can do the horizontal sharding
as some of the databases allow.
And then these distributed applications
should be completely transparent
whether they are running on your laptop,
or on Cloud,
or a on-premise data center.
So if you think about Docker,
the mission is to build, ship, and run
distributed applications across anywhere.
Whether it's your local laptop,
whether it's your Cloud,
or on-premise.
Let's take a look at how do they really want
to accomplish this mission.
So at a very high level once again,
in terms of build,
what Docker defines is a standard Docker image.
When you build your application,
essentially what you're saying is,
"Here is what my application component going to look like,
and here is what the configuration
of the application look like,
and I'm going to package this together,
and I'm going to call that as Docker Image."
Now once you have built a Docker image,
you want to share it with somebody else,
or you want to run it in production,
or you want to give it to somebody else
who can then exactly try the same image.
For that, the shipment concept comes in.
Now, by default, that is Docker Hub,
or on https://www.hub.docker.com,
So once you have built the image,
you can share the image using Docker Hub,
and once you are at Docker Hub,
you can look at what the image looks like,
and then you can download the image from Docker Hub.
By default, as I said, there's a Docker Hub,
but there are lots of other options
by which you can run a private registry,
inside firewall, outside firewall,
depending upon the access and stuff like that,
that can be easily done.
And finally, once you have shared the application,
then you want to be able to run the application.
So think of Docker Image as the build-time component
and when you want to run the image,
that's called as a Docker Container.
So, you might have built an application,
which you'll say, for example, using WildFly.
I know WildFly's...
That has, open source application server.
So you have, say WildFly in there
and in the WildFly you have (mumbles) application.
You will have a single image,
but if you want to run a container out of it
you may want to be able to run multiple instances
of that application.
So you will ship the application once,
but once you are running the application,
you may run multiple containers of it.
So, at a very high level, once again,
if I were to summarize,
Docker is an application delivery technology.
It gives you the ability
to build an application using Docker image,
ship an application using Docker Hub,
or registry is another term for shipping,
and then finally, be able to run the application
as a Docker container, potentially on multiple hosts
so that there is no single point of failure
and even multiple instances of a container
just to avoid a single point of failure as well.
So think of it as a very high level way
of how to understand Docker.
What's so good about it? How do we get started with it?
What are other details?
Let's look at the next chapter for that.